With great relevance to the naturalistic study of behavior, the characterization of both the neural substrate and cognitive underpinnings of cultural content remain elusive. One approach is to define a network of neural correlates related to expressiveness of culture. Yet this does not capture the great variation between brains and, more specifically, across cultures. To meet these criteria, we introduce a representational construct called the meta-brain model. The meta-brain model characterizes the structure of collective neural and cognitive activity for specific concepts across individuals in a single context. This allows us to work from a characterization of all possible behaviors, with the most plausible being generated through individual experiences.

Presented here is a computational model of how simple stimuli and complex concepts are represented across brains shaped by cultural context. This particular meta-brain model consists of two parts: 1) a n-dimensional kernel that is used to classify stimuli according to a blend of physical features of the perceptual world and higher-level concepts, and 2) a connectionist model used as a complement to the kernel. Taken together, they allow is to model and even simulate how the conceptual and perceptual world are translated into cultural practices and culturally-mediated behaviors. This includes the representation of both ritual processes and cultural differences in classification of domains such as colors.

The n-dimensional kernel (geometric structure) provides a geometric approach that draws parallels to the work of Roger Shepard, Peter Gardenfors, and Mark Turner. Each geometric structure consists of a soft classification space bounded by all possible values for a given concept or phenomenon. These bounds serve as dimensions, and a single event is represented by a set of scalar values. A series of these scalar values represents a set of observations across a particular cultural population. Different populations exhibiting similar cultural behaviors can be plotted in the same space, and will yield differences in how the same set of factors are subjectively understood.

As a model of behavior rather than representational coding, the connectionist model is meant to represent decision-making based on subjective criteria. This is done using a three-level network with nodes representing cultural structures (top layer), beliefs or epistemic propositions (middle layer), and discrete empirical phenomena (bottom layer). This allows for us to characterize empirical observations according to principles rather than rational criteria, leading to suboptimal (and ultimately more realistic) behaviors.
