# Meta-Brain Models and the 2020 OREL Summer Project: Contextual Neurodevelopmental Dynamics


## Project Log
- 06.20 - Affordances Subproject in progress
- 05.20 - Neuromatch 2.0 Application Submission
- 05.18 - MbM Repo and initial project board set up
- 05.09 - OREL Saturday Morning Neurosim presentation on ICLR 2020 (and BAICS workshop)
- 05.04 - GSoC Results Announced
- 04.30 - GSoC Proposal Submitted 


## Associated Materials 

### Neuromatch 2.0 Submission Proposal 
Embodied Cognition & Contextual Neurodevelopmental Dynamics : Modeling  Levels of Representation with Developmental Braitenberg Vehicles

Traditional views may posit intelligence as only operating under the jurisdiction of the mind and an isolated thinking organ, the brain. Yet developments in the interdisciplinary field of embodied cognition investigate the connection between an agent's inner world, body, and its nervous system; this also touches upon longstanding issues in the areas of behavioral science, artificial intelligence, and neurobiology. A broad set of inquiries fall under the question: how much representation is required for complex behavior?

Particularly in artificial intelligence research, behavior is generated by a black box approximating the brain. and embodiment is not always incorporated. As is standard among models of artificial and biological neural networks, an analogue of the fully mature brain is presented as a blank slate. This model generates outputs and behaviors from a priori associations, yet this does not consider  realities of biological development, developmental learning and varied necessities of representation.

This presentation examines the concept of embodied cognition through analyzing an artificial organism that exhibits complex behaviors. With the approach of using Braitenberg Vehicles (BVs) to model the development of an artificial nervous system with a spectrum of representational capacities.

Drawing on recent work in from Orthogonal Lab, we will discuss some of the most simple, original BVs, which essentially exemplify non-representational, "radical" embodied cognition, to what applications could be made by adding representational capabilities.  We discuss the potential for increasingly sophisticated behaviors through adding combinations of Complex Geometric Structures. Finally, we will reflect on how increases in representational capacity afford greater availability of potential actions or states of operation.
